---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

This week, we were supposed to get started contributing to the open source projects we selected. I was sick for most of the week, and I didn't get anything significant done. I mostly worked on setting up my environment and reading "getting started" guides. Specifically, I joined the [IRC channel](https://riot.im/app/#/room/#freenode_#nextcloud-dev:matrix.org), read the [developer manual](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/developer_manual/general/devenv.html), and learned more about how the community does [code reviews](https://nextcloud.com/blog/get-involved-in-nextcloud-by-reviewing-pulls/). I also created a common repository of the project in our course's GitHub organization. I have not yet selected which issue I'll work on first, but I look forward to doing that over the weekend. 

Patrick Masson, General Manager of the Board of Directors at Open Source Initiative, spoke to us about working in Open Source. I could write a lot this, and I would like to later on, but for now, here's my favorite takeaway: There is little value in selling open source software. Organizations generally make money from the services they provide around the software. They might, for example, provide both a community version and an enterprise version of a product or allow others to license their brands.

An aside: I've listened to several talks about copyright and open source licensing in the past month, both in and out of the classroom. Each talk begins with a disclaimer (I am not your lawyer) or a proverb (It's not open source if it doesn't have an open source license). I give you the "Let's Talk about Open Source Licensing" preamble:

> I am not a lawyer (or I'm a lawyer, but I'm not YOUR lawyer), so I can't give you legal advice. If it doesn't have a license, it's copyright; all rights reserved. It's not open source if it doesn't have an OSI approved open source license. 


## Activity
Since I was sick, I did not participate in this week's in-class GitHub workflow activity. 🤧

(I will update this section after I have completed it.)

## Contributions
None this week. 😞

