---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

This week, we discussed how to start contributing to open source projects and what counts as a contribution. From [GitHub's How to Contribute to Open Source guide](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/), we learned that there are many ways to contribute beyond writing source code. Contributions also include things such as hosting meetups, volunteering at conferences, writing tutorials, answering questions about a project on Stack Overflow, mentoring others, designing layouts, conducting user research, adding relevant labels to issues, and so on. This makes it possible for anyone to contribute to open source, in some way, regardless of their interests, skills, and familiarity with a project. Most of my contributions, so far, have been pointing out typos and errata in documentation, sharing details about workshops and conferences, and helping other students with enviroment set up and troubleshooting when they're working through tutorials. These were good ways for me to get started with open source and to become familiar with specific projects, but I would like to have experience writing code for an open source project.

I don't have a specific open source project in mind yet, but I would like to contribute to a project that impacts civic engagement, digital rights, or personal data privacy and protection. Idealy, the community would be beginner friendly, represent a mix of backgrounds (e.g. technology, law, activism, government, art), and have a local chapter in which members regularly meet in person.

## Activity
We practiced using basic git commands to make changes to a shared private repository. 

Initially, I had trouble signing into my account from the command line. This was because I had two-factor authentication enabled, and I was entering my actual password instead of [using a personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/) as was required.

## Contributions
I joined the discussion about what to include in [the Wikipedia article for Jeff Bezos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Bezos).

[Check out my Wikipedia contributions!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Codesue)
