---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

This week, we finally started deciding which projects we'd like to contribute to! 🎉

When prompted about my ideal project three weeks ago, I wrote:
> I don’t have a specific open source project in mind yet, but I would like to contribute to a project that impacts civic engagement, digital rights, or personal data privacy and protection. Idealy, the community would be beginner friendly, represent a mix of backgrounds (e.g. technology, law, activism, government, art), and have a local chapter in which members regularly meet in person.

The following week, we learned how to understand the “viability, approachability, and suitability” of a project. As part of this exercise, we measured the activity of three projects by evaluating whether thery had discussions on issues, how long it took for issues to be closed, how often pull requests were made, whether these pull requests were reviewed, and so forth. Though this is time consuming and tedious, it's important in making sure that our contributions will be meaningful. For instance, discussions on issues give more insight into a problem and answer questions about whether the issue is a priority, whether it's already being worked on, and how to approach the problem. This helps ensure that contributors are working on something that matters and that will, hopefully, become part of the project. 

My top priority is to find a project that I can make meaningful contributions to by the end of the semester. I've never contributed code to an open source project, and I have a deadline of ten weeks. Before our project evaluation exercises, I considered my ideal project largely in terms of the impact of the project. Though impact is still important to me, I've decided not to constrain myself to the areas I specified before. Now, my ideal project is one that is active and that has adequate documentation clearly labeled issues. 

The projects I'm considering are:
- [Nextcloud Server](https://github.com/nextcloud/server): "A safe home for all your data. Secure, under your control and developed in an open, transparent and trustworthy way."
- [Common Voice](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web): "A project to help make voice recognition open and accessible to everyone."
- [Blockly](https://github.com/google/blockly): "An intuitive, visual way to build code. It allows users to apply programming principles without having to worry about syntax or the intimidation of a blinking cursor on the command line."
- The Open Source NYC contribution challenge platform. ([I wrote about this last week.](https://hunter-college-ossd-spr19.github.io/codesue-weekly/week04/))

## Activity
...

## Contributions
...
