---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

This week, we talked about communities of practice and how this idea relates to open source communities. A community of practice is a group of people who share an interest and who come together to share their knowledge and to grow personally and professionally. They are largely driven by members' interests and need to attract and engage members to grow and to remain active. In [an excerpt from the book *Cultivating Communities of Practice: A Guide to Managing Knowledge*](https://hbswk.hbs.edu/archive/cultivating-communities-of-practice-a-guide-to-managing-knowledge-seven-principles-for-cultivating-communities-of-practice), Wenger, McDermott, and Snyder write that although communities of practice grow organically, they can be designed in such a way that evoke *aliveness*. This is to say that there are deliberate actions that members of a community can take to "generate enough excitement, relevance, and value to attract and engage members". They distill these actions into seven principles:
1. Design for evolution.
2. Open a dialogue between inside and outside perspectives.
3. Invite different levels of participation.
4. Develop both public and private community spaces.
5. Focus on value.
6. Combine familiarity and excitement.
7. Create a rhythm for the community.

At the core of these priciples seems to be creating the type of community in which anyone who wants to participate can participate and do so in a way and at a level that feels comfortable to them. This is most evident in inviting different levels of participation, which allows for leadership roles for those who want to be leaders and general memberships for those who want to attend meetings every once in a while. Requiring everyone to have a leadership role would exclude people who can't dedicate enough time to the community to be an effective leader or who don't want all the responsibilities of being a leader.

The main point of the article is that while communities of practice start organically, they don't succeed organically. The success of a community requires intentionalilty and effort. Though we hadn't been formally introduced to the phrase yet, we used communities of practice when evaluating open source projects we could potentially contribute to. We considered any project with an (OSI approved) open source license to be an open source project. However, we didn't consider just any project to be appropriate; the project had to have a community of practice. It had to have information about how to contribute, easy ways to get in touch with other members, recently open issues and recently merged pull requests, opportunities to make meaningful contributions, and so forth. The project had to be active, and the community arround it had to be alive. 

## Activity
We got to work on our projects during class time this week. Yay! My team used this time together to find three issues that we thought we could work on, with each person taking the lead on a different issue. Here's what we chose:
- [Localize Open Graph description tag](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/issues/1051)
- ["Ready to do 5 more" blinks when hovered and sending clips](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/issues/1295)
- [Validate more than 5 recordings](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/issues/1869)

As I wrote last week, I got started on localizing the open graph description tag. This week, I looked up some React syntax and I researched the best way to change a meta tag. At first, I was going to follow the example from a previous fix that updates the lang tag: `document.documentElement.setAttribute('lang', mainLocale);` but it might be better to use a jQuery, as inspired by this [Stack Overflow example](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2568760/is-it-possible-to-use-javascript-to-change-the-meta-tags-of-the-page): `$('meta[property="og:image"]').attr('content')`.

## Contributions
I wanted to use a website for a club activity, but I didn't understand part of the content, so [I open an issue asking for clarification](https://github.com/JohnPhamous/milestones.codes/issues/1). 
