---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

This week, we read about personalities in open source and considered how to design communities that are inclusive of different personality types. The article [Have You Seen These Personalities in Open Source](https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/11/design-communities-personality-types?utm_campaign=intrel) introduces five trait dichotomies and explores what a community that's mindful of those traits might look like. Such a community might have both public and private communication channels to accomodate both *introverts* and extroverts; processes and workflows would be adaptable to accomodate both *strict* and *flexible* people; documentation might include an explanation of the context in which decisions were made to accomodate both people who need *certainty* and those who work well under *ambiguity*; in resolving conflicts, leaders would be mindful that some people might focus on *subjective* experiences and others might focus on *objective* details. In many ways, this is a continuation of our discussion on communities of practice, wherein we considered how to design "the type of community in which anyone who wants to participate can participate and do so in a way and at a level that feels comfortable to them".

## Activity
Late last week, I reached out to other contributors via Slack. No one responded even after I bumped my original message, so I'm still stuck. I'll do more research this weekend and I'll comment on the issue on GitHub.

## Contributions
None this week. 😞
