---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---


This week, we were introduced to the Open Source NYC Meetup and learned about their goal to build a tool to track participation in their summer open source contribution challenge. We discussed the tool's requirements and started considering how to divide the project into teams. The project's main goal is to promote open source contribution by tracking and rewarding participation. The requirements are that the tool should record activity metrics, rank participants, and have participants register to join the challenge.

I understand the main goal for the organizers (increasing open source contributions and participation in the open source community), and I understand how these requirements serve that goal. I don't, however, understand the goals of hopeful participants. Why specifically would they want to contribute to open source projects? Are they trying to give back to a community? To develop their programming skills? To improve a tool they regularly use? What obstacles prevent them from contributing as much as they would like to? Do they have trouble making time to do so? Have trouble finding appropriate issues? Need guidance working through technical challenges?

I'm looking forward to discussing these questions with the organizers and contributors, as well as learning the following:
1. Who are the target users? Are they people who already actively contribute to open source projects, people who are new to contributing to open source projects, or anyone regardless of their skill level?
2. Will challenges be the same for everyone regardless of skill level and reasons for participating? For instance, would we only track code contributions via GitHub, or would we also track contributions such as giving a lightening talk at a Meetup?
3. Are prizes physical or do they include things like profile badges and recognition at in-person events?

## Activity
We spent more time evaluating open source projects, focusing on how to tell if a projcet is active. [I wrote about this in last week's post.](https://hunter-college-ossd-spr19.github.io/codesue-weekly/week03/) 

## Contributions
I started planning an introductory web development workshop series. The goal is for students to understand basic web development and to create portfolio websites that they can host on GitHub pages.

I reported the following issues:
- [Awkward rendering of bullet points in week 2 post](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-spr19/Shane-Lester99-weekly/issues/2)
