---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

This week, I made my first non trivial contributions to Wikipedia! I translated half of the [Italian language article on the Italian penal code of 1889](https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Codice_penale_italiano_del_1889) (also known as the Zanardelli code) into English. I chose to translate this article because the English version was just a few sentences long, but the topic yielded over 200,000 hits when searched, and it has been mentioned in reputable English language sources, such as a book published by Cambridge University Press and an article for the Atlantic. Additionally, the Zanardelli Code is still in effect in Vatican City.

Overall, the translation process was quite straight forward. However, one of the challenges I had was discerning wheter certain phrases were especially meaningful or if they were just a common way of saying something. For instance, the heading "La Relazione al Re" (The Report to the King) could refer to a standard report to the king or it could refer to a specific document. This is analogous to "an address at Gettysburg" versus "The Gettysburg Address". Another example I've encountered in the text is the phrase "i diritti dell'uomo e del cittadino". This might be used idiomatically, or it might refer to the [Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Declaration_of_the_Rights_of_Man_and_of_the_Citizen). I will ask about this on the talk page.

Check out [my translation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zanardelli_Code) and [my contributions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Codesue)!
