---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

This week, we read the guides [Contributing to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contributing_to_Wikipedia#Getting_started) (an overview of norms and customs for Wikipedia editors) and [A Primer for Newcomers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:A_primer_for_newcomers) (a quick and simple guide to people who are new to Wikipedia). We continuted working through the Unix tutorial we started last Friday, so we didn't get to discuss them in class. The articles introduce [Wikipedia's Five Pillars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Five_pillars) and outline what these pillars mean for people who want to contribute to Wikipedia. They also give practical advice about choosing an article to edit, enhancing articles with media (e.g. images, sounds, video, tables), being a member of the Wikipedia community, citing sources, and finding official wikipedia guides and policies. The lengthiness of these articles--which are meant to be brief, getting started references--immediately reveals the scale and maturity of the Wikipedia project. 

Wikipedia's Five Pillars are: \
**1. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia** \
**2. Wikipedia is written from a neutral point of view** \
**3. Wikipedia is free content that anyone can use, edit, and distribute** \
**4. Wikipedia's editors should treat each other with respect and civility** \
**5. Wikipedia has no firm rules** 

## Activity
Last week, I was confident that I found the solution to issue I was working on (localizing open graph description tags). It is a solution, but it's the wrong kind. While the changes I make are reflected in the DOM, they're not being picked up by the tool that uses this metadata when the site's URL is shared. The tool simply reads existing HTML; it doesn't execute the JavaScript then read the resulting HTML. I'm a bit stuck, so I'll reach out to other contributor's via Slack.

## Contributions
None this week. 😞

I am leading an intro to HTML and CSS workshop, but this isn't attached to an open source project, so I'm not sure if it actually counts as an open source contribution. 
