---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

It's official: I'll be contributing to [Common Voice](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web)!! Common Voice is a  Mozilla initiative that helps make voice recognition open and accessible to everyone. For this class, I'm making my contributions as part of a team. Though it is a great project overall, Nextcloud Server is too ambitious of a project for us to contribute to right now. It requires a specific operating system or using a VPN, it's large, and troubleshooting errors means understanding server errors. Common Voice is a good alternative because it has a smaller code base that is easier to understand, it's not as system dependent, and it uses tools that most of the team are already familiar with. For example, contributors talk over Slack, rather than IRC.

On Tuesday, I set up my environment and added the project's repository to the course organization. Set up was refreshingly simple. I downloaded NodeJS, npm, yarn, ffmpeg, MariaDB and docker, and I cloned the project's repository from GitHub. All I had to do to serve the website was run the command `docker-compose up`.

On Wednesday, I chose an issue I thought I could work on, and I explored the codebase. The issue is to [localize open graph description tags](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/issues/1051). Currently, when someone shares a link to the site with any locale, the description is in English rather than the language of the specified locale. My initial solution to this is to:
- Get the official translation of the site description in the language of each locale
- Add a site description string to each locale
- Set the content attribute of the open graph description according to the specified locale

I found a similar closed issue: [setting the html lang attribute according to the chosen language](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/issues/1112). I will start working on a solution based on [that fix](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/commit/6f255a496a68dcae9c3f034fc9672fb51badf576) using dummy test strings this weekend. While I work, I will test my solution visually in Chrome, using the Open Graph Preview extension.

Today, I introduced myself to other contributors, writing:
>Hello all! My name is Sue, and I’m a computer science undergraduate student in NYC. I’ve contributed to Common Voice by validating clips, but I’m totally new to contributing code to an open source project. I’ve identified a help wanted issue I think I can work on: localizing the open graph description tag (https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/issues/1051). I’m excited to join this community and to hopefully make my first contribution! 😊

## Activity
We're mostly done with the in-class GitHub workflow activity. Our maintainer was sick, so our pull requests haven't been reviewed yet.

## Contributions
None this week. 😞
