---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


This week, we learned about the [anatomy of an open source project](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#anatomy-of-an-open-source-project) and how to evaluate projects we're considering contributing to. We reviewed three projects: [OpenFoodFacts Server](https://github.com/openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server), [Netflix Conductor](https://github.com/Netflix/conductor), and [DOxygen](https://github.com/doxygen/doxygen). In evaluating these projects, I learned that I was most concerned with how much effort a community puts in to being welcoming and inclusive. Although contributors to the projects were courteous and friendly, none of the projects had a code of conduct, and only one of them used labels like "good starter issue". Part of why this is important to me is that I want to feel comfortable asking questions and asking for help. I also prefer to be part of a community that takes it seriously if a member is harassed and has policies in place to deal with such misconduct. 

Last spring, I was introduced to an open source project that I'd like to contribute to and that has the type of community I'd like to be part of. There's clear documentation for installation and getting started, issues are labeled well, there are active IRC channels, there's a code of conduct, the community is involved with open source inclusion and divercity, etc. Most importantly, there are people dedicated to community building and mentorship.

I downloaded and installed the server locally and had found some starter issues that seemed feasible for me, but this is as far as I got. I was overwhelmed by all the steps to get from being assigned and issue to creating a pull request. Just finding the relevant code for an issue seemed daunting! It didn't occur to me that it takes time for everyone to understand a new codebase and how things are organized. And it didn't occur to me that even things that seem simple and straight forward can be challenging the first time. I regret that I didn't ask for the help I needed and that I still haven't made my first contribution to this project.

I had a software engineering internship last summer and got to work with a dedicated mentor. At first, I often worried that I was asking too many questions and that I was asking about simple things that I should already know. My mentor taught me that no matter how silly I felt asking questions, it was better to get help and make progress than to remain stuck. This semester I want to get better at succinctly stating what problem I'm having and asking well formulated questions. This is something I started getting better at towards the end of my internship, and it's especially important now that I'll be working with a remote team.

## Activity
As mentioned earlier, we evaluated three open source projects to have experience [deciding whether a project is appropriate to contribute to](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/activities/project_evaluation_activity.pdf) in terms of its "viability, approachability, and suitability". Overall, I enjoyed the exercise because it helped me realize what was most important to me in choosing an open source community. I did, however, find it tedious to calculate how long it generally takes for an issue to be closed and how long it takes for a pull request to be merged for a given project. I understand that doing this is helpful in evaluating how active a project is, and that it's important to know how active a project is when deciding whether to contribute to it, but I wish this information was built in to the GitHub insights dashboard. 

## Contributions
None this week. 😞
